get-from
========

Function to retrieve values from objects without painfully checking if the value `isset`. Inspired by and ported from
the great [get-in](https://github.com/igorw/get-in) library for arrays from Igor Wiedler.

For example, to access a nested property `->foo->bar->baz`, you must do something like this:

```php
$baz = (isset($data->foo->bar->baz)) ? $data->foo->bar->baz : null;
```

Enough already! get-from provides a better way:

```php
$baz = florianec\get_from($data, ['foo', 'bar', 'baz']);
```

`get_from` is specially handy when dealing with deeply nested objects like those generated by [SimpleXML](http://at2.php.net/manual/en/book.simplexml.php).

Installation
------------

Through composer:

```bash
$ composer require florianeckerstorfer/get-from:~1.0
```

Usage
-----

### get_in

Retrieve value from a nested structure using a list of keys:

```php
$data = new \stdClass();
$data->foo = new \stdClass();
$data->foo->bar = new \stdClass();
$data->foo->bar->baz = 'oof';

$name = florianec\get_from($data, ['foo', 'bar', 'baz']);
//= 'oof'
```

Non existent keys return `null`:

```php
$data = new \stdClass();
$data->foo = 'bar';

$baz = florianec\get_from($data, ['baz']);
//= null
```

You can provide a default value that will be used instead of `null`:

```php
$data = new \stdClass();
$data->foo = 'bar';

$baz = florianec\get_from($data, ['baz'], 'qux');
//= 'qux'
```


Changelog
---------

### Version 1.0 (9 March 2014)

- Initial release


Inspiration
-----------

This library is a complete ripoff of Igor Wiedler's [get-in](https://github.com/igorw/get-in) library. Even this README file is largely inspired by Igors work. Scandalous.

I created this library/function when I wanted to clean up the code dealing with XML from an external web service and I realised that `get-in` only works for arrays and not for objects.


Author
------

- [Florian Eckerstorfer](http://florian.ec) ([Twitter](http://twitter.com/Florian_), [App.net](http://app.net/florian))


License
-------

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2014 Florian eckerstorfer

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.
